README.md, before:

# awesome-macos
A curated list of 😎 awesome applications, softwares and tools for  macOS.

[![Awesome](https://awesome.re/badge.svg)](https://awesome.re)

![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon] means **open source**, click to open **open source** repo;\
![Freeware][Freeware Icon] means **free** to use, or **free** personal license;\
![App Store][app-store Icon] means **App store** hyperlink;\
![Homebrew][Homebrew Icon] means **Homebrew Formulae** hyperlink;\
![Awesome List][awesome-list Icon] means hyperlink to a corresponding **Awesome list** for the item;

#### Command Line Tools
- [batt](https://github.com/charlie0129/batt) - Control and limit battery charging on Apple Silicon MacBooks. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/charlie0129/batt) [![Homebrew][Homebrew Icon]](https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/batt)
- [FFmpeg](https://ffmpeg.org/) - A complete, cross-platform solution to record, convert and stream audio and video. [![Freeware][Freeware Icon]](https://ffmpeg.org/) [![Homebrew][Homebrew Icon]](https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/ffmpeg)
- [iTerm2](https://iterm2.com/) - A terminal emulator for macOS that does amazing things. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/gnachman/iTerm2) [![Homebrew][Homebrew Icon]](https://formulae.brew.sh/cask/iterm2)
- [m-cli](https://github.com/rgcr/m-cli#how-to-use) - Lets you interact with utilities and applications entirely in Terminal. [![Freeware][Freeware Icon]](https://github.com/rgcr/m-cli) [![Homebrew][Homebrew Icon]](https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/m-cli)
- [tldr-pages](https://tldr.sh/) - A collection of community-maintained help pages for command-line tools, that aims to be a simpler, more approachable complement to traditional [man pages](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Man_page). [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr) [![Homebrew][Homebrew Icon]](https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/tldr)
- [Unar](https://theunarchiver.com/command-line) - The Unarchiver, command-line unarchiving tools supporting multiple formats. [![Freeware][Freeware Icon]](https://theunarchiver.com/command-line) [![Homebrew][Homebrew Icon]](https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/unar)
- [Xcode](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/) - Apple Xcode includes command-line tools which enable UNIX-style development via the Terminal app in macOS. [![Freeware][Freeware Icon]](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/resources/)
- [youtubedr](https://github.com/kkdai/youtube) - CLI to download YouTube videos in Golang. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/kkdai/youtube) [![Homebrew][Homebrew Icon]](https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/youtubedr)
- [yt-dlp](https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp) - Command-line program to download videos from YouTube.com and other video sites. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp) [![Homebrew][Homebrew Icon]](https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/yt-dlp)
- [p7zip](https://github.com/p7zip-project/p7zip) - 7-Zip (high compression file archiver) implementation. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/p7zip-project/p7zip) [![Homebrew][Homebrew Icon]](https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/p7zip)

#### Browsers
- [Arc](https://arc.net/) - An innovative web browser developed by The Browser Company. It’s designed to enhance your browsing experience with features that adapt to your needs and preferences. [![Freeware][Freeware Icon]](https://arc.net/)
- [Brave Browser](https://brave.com/) - Web browser focusing on privacy. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/brave/brave-browser)
- [Firefox](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/mac/) - Faster page loading, less memory usage and packed with features, the new Firefox for Mac. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/mac/)
- [Google Chrome](https://www.google.com/chrome/) - A more simple, secure, and faster web browser than ever, with Google’s smarts built-in. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://www.google.com/chrome/)
- [Helium](https://helium.computer/) - The Chromium-based web browser made for people, with love. Best privacy by default, unbiased ad-blocking, no bloat and no noise. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/imputnet/helium)
- [Microsoft Edge](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/edge/download/) - A fast and secure browser with world class performance, built-in privacy, and more. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/edge/download/)
- [Orion Browser by Kagi](https://browser.kagi.com/) - Lightweight, natively built with WebKit, made for you and your Mac. Industry-leading battery life, privacy respecting by design and native support for web extensions. [![Freeware][Freeware Icon]](https://www.omnigroup.com/more)
- [Tor Browser](https://www.torproject.org/download/) - Defend yourself against tracking and surveillance. Circumvent censorship. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://www.torproject.org/download/)
- [Zen Browser](https://zen-browser.app/) - Zen is a firefox-based browser with the aim of pushing your productivity to a new level! [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/zen-browser/desktop)

#### Developers
- [GIMP](https://www.gimp.org/) - An acronym for GNU Image Manipulation Program. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/gimp)
- [ImageOptim](https://imageoptim.com/mac) - Removes bloated metadata. Saves disk space & bandwidth by compressing images without losing quality. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/ImageOptim/ImageOptim)
- [Inkscape](https://inkscape.org/) - Vector graphics editor. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://inkscape.org/)
- [Krita](https://krita.org/en/) - Free and open-source painting and sketching program. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://krita.org/en/)
- [seashore](https://github.com/robaho/seashore) - easy to use mac osx image editing application for the rest of us [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/robaho/seashore)

#### Editors
- [CodeEdit](https://github.com/CodeEditApp/CodeEdit) - CodeEdit App for macOS, elevate your code editing experience. Open source, free forever. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/CodeEditApp/CodeEdit) [![App Store][app-store Icon]](https://apps.apple.com/app/coteditor/id1024640650?ls=1)
- [CotEditor](https://coteditor.com/) - Lightweight Plain-Text Editor for macOS. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/coteditor/CotEditor)
- [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) - A code editor redefined and optimized for building and debugging modern web and cloud applications. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode/)
- [Zed](https://zed.dev/) - Zed is a high-performance, multiplayer code editor from the creators of Atom and Tree-sitter. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://zed.dev/)

#### Media Player
- [IINA](https://iina.io/) - The modern media player for macOS. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/iina/iina)
- [VLC Media Player](https://www.videolan.org/vlc/) - A free and open source cross-platform multimedia player and framework that plays most multimedia files as well as DVDs, Audio CDs, VCDs, and various streaming protocols. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://www.videolan.org/vlc/)

#### Package Manager
- [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) - The Missing Package Manager for macOS (or Linux). [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/Homebrew/brew)
- [MacPorts](https://www.macports.org/) - An open-source community initiative to design an easy-to-use system for compiling, installing, and upgrading either command-line, X11 or Aqua based open-source software. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://www.macports.org/)

#### Remote Desktop
- [AnyDesk](https://anydesk.com/en/downloads/mac-os) - The secure & intuitive remote desktop software, and take advantage of the application's innovative features. [![Freeware][Freeware Icon]](https://anydesk.com/en/downloads/mac-os)
- [RustDesk](https://rustdesk.com/) - A remote desktop software, the open source TeamViewer alternative, works out of the box, no configuration required. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/rustdesk/rustdesk)

#### Utilities
- [AltTab](https://alt-tab-macos.netlify.app/) - AltTab brings the power of Windows alt-tab to macOS. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/lwouis/alt-tab-macos)
- [Android File Transfer](https://www.android.com/filetransfer/) - Browse and transfer files between your Mac computer and your Android device. [![Freeware][Freeware Icon]](https://www.android.com/filetransfer/)
- [AppCleaner](https://freemacsoft.net/appcleaner/) - A small application which allows you to thoroughly uninstall unwanted apps. [![Freeware][Freeware Icon]](https://freemacsoft.net/appcleaner/)
- [App Eraser](https://github.com/davunt/app-eraser) - Removes unwanted macOS applications and any related files that they leave behind. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/davunt/app-eraser)
- [Battery charge limiter](https://github.com/actuallymentor/battery) - CLI/GUI for managing the battery charging status for Apple silicon (M1, M32, M3) Macs [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/actuallymentor/battery)
- [Blackmagic Disk Speed Test](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/blackmagic-disk-speed-test/id425264550?mt=12) - Disk Speed Test is an easy to use tool to quickly measure and certify your disk performance for working with high quality video! [![Freeware][Freeware Icon] ![App Store][app-store Icon]](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/blackmagic-disk-speed-test/id425264550?mt=12)
- [Calendr](https://github.com/pakerwreah/Calendr) - Menu bar calendar for macOS [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/pakerwreah/Calendr)
- [ChatGPT on your desktop](https://openai.com/chatgpt/desktop/) - OpenAI's official ChatGPT desktop app. [![Freeware][Freeware Icon]](https://openai.com/chatgpt/desktop/)
- [DockDoor](https://dockdoor.net/) - Effortless Alt+Tab switching and dock previews that respect your privacy. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/ejbills/DockDoor)
- [Dynamic Dark Mode](https://github.com/ApolloZhu/Dynamic-Dark-Mode) - The app you are looking for to power up Dark Mode on macOS Mojave and beyond. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/ApolloZhu/Dynamic-Dark-Mode)
- [Dropover](https://dropoverapp.com/) - Effortless Drag & Drop on your Mac. [![Freeware][Freeware Icon]](https://dropoverapp.com/)
- [Hand Mirror](https://handmirror.app/) - A one-click camera check, right from the menu bar. [![Freeware][Freeware Icon] ![App Store][app-store Icon]](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/hand-mirror/id1502839586?mt=12)
- [KeepingYouAwake](https://keepingyouawake.app/) - Prevents your Mac from going to sleep. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/newmarcel/KeepingYouAwake)
- [Keka](https://www.keka.io/en/) - The macOS file archiver Store more, share with privacy. [![Freeware][Freeware Icon]](https://www.keka.io/en/)
- [KeyboardCleanTool](https://folivora.ai/keyboardcleantool) - A super simple little tool which blocks all Keyboard and TouchBar input. [![Freeware][Freeware Icon]](https://folivora.ai/keyboardcleantool)
- [Latest](https://github.com/mangerlahn/latest) - A small utility app for macOS that makes sure you know about all the latest updates to the apps you use. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/mangerlahn/latest)
- [LinearMouse](https://linearmouse.app/) - The mouse and trackpad utility for Mac. [![Freeware][Freeware Icon]](https://github.com/linearmouse/linearmouse)
- [LocalSend](https://localsend.org/) - Open-source cross-platform alternative to AirDrop. [![Freeware][Freeware Icon]](https://github.com/localsend/localsend)
- [Maccy](https://maccy.app/) - Lightweight clipboard manager for macOS. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/p0deje/Maccy)
- [Maintenance](https://www.titanium-software.fr/en/maintenance.html) - Maintenance is an operating system maintenance and cleaning utility for macOS that you can use to perform miscellaneous tasks of computer maintenance: run periodic scripts; rebuild the databases; delete application, font, and system caches; and more. [![Freeware][Freeware Icon]](https://www.titanium-software.fr/en/maintenance.html)
- [MOS](https://mos.caldis.me/) - A lightweight tool used to smooth scrolling and set scroll direction independently for your mouse on MacOS [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://mos.caldis.me/)
- [Numi](https://numi.app/) - Beautiful calculator app for macOS. It allows you to describe tasks naturally and instantly get an accurate answer. For example, `$20 in euro - 5% discount` or `today + 2 weeks`. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/nikolaeu/numi)
- [OmniDiskSweeper](https://www.omnigroup.com/more) - Quickly find large, unwanted files and sweep them into the trash. [![Freeware][Freeware Icon]](https://www.omnigroup.com/more)
- [One Thing](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/one-thing/id1604176982?mt=12) - Put your most important task or goal in the menu bar. Its presence there will help remind you without being annoying. [![Freeware][Freeware Icon] ![App Store][app-store Icon]](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/one-thing/id1604176982?mt=12)
- [OnyX](https://www.titanium-software.fr/en/onyx.html) - OnyX is a multifunction utility that you can use to verify the structure of the system files; run miscellaneous maintenance and cleaning tasks; configure parameters in the Finder, Dock, Safari, and some Apple applications; delete caches; remove certain problematic folders and files; rebuild various databases and indexes; and more. [![Freeware][Freeware Icon]](https://www.titanium-software.fr/en/onyx.html)
- [Rectangle](https://rectangleapp.com/) - Move and resize windows in macOS using keyboard shortcuts or snap areas. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/rxhanson/Rectangle)
- [SelfControl](https://selfcontrolapp.com/) - Mac app to block your own access to distracting websites etc. for a predetermined period of time. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/SelfControlApp/selfcontrol)
- [SlimHUD](https://alexperathoner.github.io/SlimHUD/) - Replacement for MacOS’ HUDs. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://alexperathoner.github.io/SlimHUD/)
- [Tempbox](https://tempbox.waseem.works/) - Instant disposable emails for Mac powered by _Mail.tm_. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/devwaseem/TempBox)
- [Transnomino ](https://www.transnomino.com/) - A batch rename utility for the Mac [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://www.transnomino.com/)
- [TinkerTool](https://www.bresink.com/osx/TinkerTool.html) - TinkerTool is an application that gives you access to additional preference settings Apple has built into macOS.
- [The Unarchiver](https://macpaw.com/the-unarchiver) - Unpack any archive, in no time. [![Freeware][Freeware Icon]](https://macpaw.com/the-unarchiver)
- [Transmission](https://transmissionbt.com/) - Transmission is a fast, easy, and free BitTorrent client. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/transmission/transmission)

#### Wallpaper
- [Every Default macOS Wallpaper](https://512pixels.net/projects/default-mac-wallpapers-in-5k/) - Every major version of macOS has come with a new default wallpaper. [![Freeware][Freeware Icon]](https://512pixels.net/projects/default-mac-wallpapers-in-5k/)
- [Dynamic Wallpaper Club](https://dynamicwallpaper.club/gallery) - A service to create and a platform to share Dynamic Wallpapers for Mac. [![Freeware][Freeware Icon]](https://dynamicwallpaper.club/gallery)
- [Mac Sierra Wallpapers](https://wallpaperaccess.com/mac-sierra) - A collection of the top 39 Mac Sierra wallpapers and backgrounds available for download for free. [![Freeware][Freeware Icon]](https://wallpaperaccess.com/mac-sierra)
- [Grayscale of Mountain](https://unsplash.com/photos/GjpUV4k76F8) - Taken from 5083m behind Dingboche, Nepal.

#### Others
- [Is Apple Silicon ready?](https://isapplesiliconready.com/) - The complete guide for MacOS Apps Optimized for Apple Silicon Macs and the M1 Processor.

#### Awesome macOS Repo on GitHub
- [![Awesome List][awesome-list Icon] agarrharr/awesome-macos-screensavers ![GitHub Repo stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/agarrharr/awesome-macos-screensavers)](https://github.com/agarrharr/awesome-macos-screensavers)
- [![Awesome List][awesome-list Icon] iCHAIT/awesome-macOS ![GitHub Repo stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/iCHAIT/awesome-macOS)](https://github.com/iCHAIT/awesome-macOS)
- [![Awesome List][awesome-list Icon] jaywcjlove/awesome-mac ![GitHub Repo stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/jaywcjlove/awesome-mac)](https://github.com/jaywcjlove/awesome-mac)
- [![Awesome List][awesome-list Icon] serhii-londar/open-source-mac-os-apps ![GitHub Repo stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/serhii-londar/open-source-mac-os-apps)](https://github.com/serhii-londar/open-source-mac-os-apps)
- [![Awesome List][awesome-list Icon] phmullins/awesome-macos ![GitHub Repo stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/phmullins/awesome-macos)](https://github.com/phmullins/awesome-macos)

<p align="right"><a href="#awesome-macos"><b>↥ To the top</b></a></p>

[OSS Icon]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/MilanAryal/awesome-macos/main/svg/min-oss.svg "Open Source Software"
[Freeware Icon]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/MilanAryal/awesome-macos/main/svg/min-free.svg "Freeware"
[app-store Icon]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/MilanAryal/awesome-macos/main/svg/min-app-store.svg "App Store Software"
[awesome-list Icon]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/MilanAryal/awesome-macos/main/svg/min-awesome.svg "Awesome List"
[Homebrew Icon]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/MilanAryal/awesome-macos/main/svg/min-brew.svg "Homebrew"

Commit message:

Add Affinity to developers section in README

README.md, after:

# awesome-macos
A curated list of 😎 awesome applications, softwares and tools for  macOS.

[![Awesome](https://awesome.re/badge.svg)](https://awesome.re)

![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon] means **open source**, click to open **open source** repo;\
![Freeware][Freeware Icon] means **free** to use, or **free** personal license;\
![App Store][app-store Icon] means **App store** hyperlink;\
![Homebrew][Homebrew Icon] means **Homebrew Formulae** hyperlink;\
![Awesome List][awesome-list Icon] means hyperlink to a corresponding **Awesome list** for the item;

#### Command Line Tools
- [batt](https://github.com/charlie0129/batt) - Control and limit battery charging on Apple Silicon MacBooks. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/charlie0129/batt) [![Homebrew][Homebrew Icon]](https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/batt)
- [FFmpeg](https://ffmpeg.org/) - A complete, cross-platform solution to record, convert and stream audio and video. [![Freeware][Freeware Icon]](https://ffmpeg.org/) [![Homebrew][Homebrew Icon]](https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/ffmpeg)
- [iTerm2](https://iterm2.com/) - A terminal emulator for macOS that does amazing things. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/gnachman/iTerm2) [![Homebrew][Homebrew Icon]](https://formulae.brew.sh/cask/iterm2)
- [m-cli](https://github.com/rgcr/m-cli#how-to-use) - Lets you interact with utilities and applications entirely in Terminal. [![Freeware][Freeware Icon]](https://github.com/rgcr/m-cli) [![Homebrew][Homebrew Icon]](https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/m-cli)
- [tldr-pages](https://tldr.sh/) - A collection of community-maintained help pages for command-line tools, that aims to be a simpler, more approachable complement to traditional [man pages](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Man_page). [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr) [![Homebrew][Homebrew Icon]](https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/tldr)
- [Unar](https://theunarchiver.com/command-line) - The Unarchiver, command-line unarchiving tools supporting multiple formats. [![Freeware][Freeware Icon]](https://theunarchiver.com/command-line) [![Homebrew][Homebrew Icon]](https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/unar)
- [Xcode](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/) - Apple Xcode includes command-line tools which enable UNIX-style development via the Terminal app in macOS. [![Freeware][Freeware Icon]](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/resources/)
- [youtubedr](https://github.com/kkdai/youtube) - CLI to download YouTube videos in Golang. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/kkdai/youtube) [![Homebrew][Homebrew Icon]](https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/youtubedr)
- [yt-dlp](https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp) - Command-line program to download videos from YouTube.com and other video sites. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp) [![Homebrew][Homebrew Icon]](https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/yt-dlp)
- [p7zip](https://github.com/p7zip-project/p7zip) - 7-Zip (high compression file archiver) implementation. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/p7zip-project/p7zip) [![Homebrew][Homebrew Icon]](https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/p7zip)

#### Browsers
- [Arc](https://arc.net/) - An innovative web browser developed by The Browser Company. It’s designed to enhance your browsing experience with features that adapt to your needs and preferences. [![Freeware][Freeware Icon]](https://arc.net/)
- [Brave Browser](https://brave.com/) - Web browser focusing on privacy. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/brave/brave-browser)
- [Firefox](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/mac/) - Faster page loading, less memory usage and packed with features, the new Firefox for Mac. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/mac/)
- [Google Chrome](https://www.google.com/chrome/) - A more simple, secure, and faster web browser than ever, with Google’s smarts built-in. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://www.google.com/chrome/)
- [Helium](https://helium.computer/) - The Chromium-based web browser made for people, with love. Best privacy by default, unbiased ad-blocking, no bloat and no noise. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/imputnet/helium)
- [Microsoft Edge](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/edge/download/) - A fast and secure browser with world class performance, built-in privacy, and more. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/edge/download/)
- [Orion Browser by Kagi](https://browser.kagi.com/) - Lightweight, natively built with WebKit, made for you and your Mac. Industry-leading battery life, privacy respecting by design and native support for web extensions. [![Freeware][Freeware Icon]](https://www.omnigroup.com/more)
- [Tor Browser](https://www.torproject.org/download/) - Defend yourself against tracking and surveillance. Circumvent censorship. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://www.torproject.org/download/)
- [Zen Browser](https://zen-browser.app/) - Zen is a firefox-based browser with the aim of pushing your productivity to a new level! [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/zen-browser/desktop)

#### Developers
- [Affinity](https://www.affinity.studio/) - All the design and photo editing tools you need in one app–for free. [![Freeware][Freeware Icon]](https://www.affinity.studio/)
- [GIMP](https://www.gimp.org/) - An acronym for GNU Image Manipulation Program. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/gimp)
- [ImageOptim](https://imageoptim.com/mac) - Removes bloated metadata. Saves disk space & bandwidth by compressing images without losing quality. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/ImageOptim/ImageOptim)
- [Inkscape](https://inkscape.org/) - Vector graphics editor. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://inkscape.org/)
- [Krita](https://krita.org/en/) - Free and open-source painting and sketching program. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://krita.org/en/)
- [seashore](https://github.com/robaho/seashore) - easy to use mac osx image editing application for the rest of us [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/robaho/seashore)

#### Editors
- [CodeEdit](https://github.com/CodeEditApp/CodeEdit) - CodeEdit App for macOS, elevate your code editing experience. Open source, free forever. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/CodeEditApp/CodeEdit) [![App Store][app-store Icon]](https://apps.apple.com/app/coteditor/id1024640650?ls=1)
- [CotEditor](https://coteditor.com/) - Lightweight Plain-Text Editor for macOS. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/coteditor/CotEditor)
- [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) - A code editor redefined and optimized for building and debugging modern web and cloud applications. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode/)
- [Zed](https://zed.dev/) - Zed is a high-performance, multiplayer code editor from the creators of Atom and Tree-sitter. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://zed.dev/)

#### Media Player
- [IINA](https://iina.io/) - The modern media player for macOS. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/iina/iina)
- [VLC Media Player](https://www.videolan.org/vlc/) - A free and open source cross-platform multimedia player and framework that plays most multimedia files as well as DVDs, Audio CDs, VCDs, and various streaming protocols. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://www.videolan.org/vlc/)

#### Package Manager
- [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) - The Missing Package Manager for macOS (or Linux). [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/Homebrew/brew)
- [MacPorts](https://www.macports.org/) - An open-source community initiative to design an easy-to-use system for compiling, installing, and upgrading either command-line, X11 or Aqua based open-source software. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://www.macports.org/)

#### Remote Desktop
- [AnyDesk](https://anydesk.com/en/downloads/mac-os) - The secure & intuitive remote desktop software, and take advantage of the application's innovative features. [![Freeware][Freeware Icon]](https://anydesk.com/en/downloads/mac-os)
- [RustDesk](https://rustdesk.com/) - A remote desktop software, the open source TeamViewer alternative, works out of the box, no configuration required. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/rustdesk/rustdesk)

#### Utilities
- [AltTab](https://alt-tab-macos.netlify.app/) - AltTab brings the power of Windows alt-tab to macOS. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/lwouis/alt-tab-macos)
- [Android File Transfer](https://www.android.com/filetransfer/) - Browse and transfer files between your Mac computer and your Android device. [![Freeware][Freeware Icon]](https://www.android.com/filetransfer/)
- [AppCleaner](https://freemacsoft.net/appcleaner/) - A small application which allows you to thoroughly uninstall unwanted apps. [![Freeware][Freeware Icon]](https://freemacsoft.net/appcleaner/)
- [App Eraser](https://github.com/davunt/app-eraser) - Removes unwanted macOS applications and any related files that they leave behind. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/davunt/app-eraser)
- [Battery charge limiter](https://github.com/actuallymentor/battery) - CLI/GUI for managing the battery charging status for Apple silicon (M1, M32, M3) Macs [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/actuallymentor/battery)
- [Blackmagic Disk Speed Test](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/blackmagic-disk-speed-test/id425264550?mt=12) - Disk Speed Test is an easy to use tool to quickly measure and certify your disk performance for working with high quality video! [![Freeware][Freeware Icon] ![App Store][app-store Icon]](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/blackmagic-disk-speed-test/id425264550?mt=12)
- [Calendr](https://github.com/pakerwreah/Calendr) - Menu bar calendar for macOS [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/pakerwreah/Calendr)
- [ChatGPT on your desktop](https://openai.com/chatgpt/desktop/) - OpenAI's official ChatGPT desktop app. [![Freeware][Freeware Icon]](https://openai.com/chatgpt/desktop/)
- [DockDoor](https://dockdoor.net/) - Effortless Alt+Tab switching and dock previews that respect your privacy. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/ejbills/DockDoor)
- [Dynamic Dark Mode](https://github.com/ApolloZhu/Dynamic-Dark-Mode) - The app you are looking for to power up Dark Mode on macOS Mojave and beyond. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/ApolloZhu/Dynamic-Dark-Mode)
- [Dropover](https://dropoverapp.com/) - Effortless Drag & Drop on your Mac. [![Freeware][Freeware Icon]](https://dropoverapp.com/)
- [Hand Mirror](https://handmirror.app/) - A one-click camera check, right from the menu bar. [![Freeware][Freeware Icon] ![App Store][app-store Icon]](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/hand-mirror/id1502839586?mt=12)
- [KeepingYouAwake](https://keepingyouawake.app/) - Prevents your Mac from going to sleep. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/newmarcel/KeepingYouAwake)
- [Keka](https://www.keka.io/en/) - The macOS file archiver Store more, share with privacy. [![Freeware][Freeware Icon]](https://www.keka.io/en/)
- [KeyboardCleanTool](https://folivora.ai/keyboardcleantool) - A super simple little tool which blocks all Keyboard and TouchBar input. [![Freeware][Freeware Icon]](https://folivora.ai/keyboardcleantool)
- [Latest](https://github.com/mangerlahn/latest) - A small utility app for macOS that makes sure you know about all the latest updates to the apps you use. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/mangerlahn/latest)
- [LinearMouse](https://linearmouse.app/) - The mouse and trackpad utility for Mac. [![Freeware][Freeware Icon]](https://github.com/linearmouse/linearmouse)
- [LocalSend](https://localsend.org/) - Open-source cross-platform alternative to AirDrop. [![Freeware][Freeware Icon]](https://github.com/localsend/localsend)
- [Maccy](https://maccy.app/) - Lightweight clipboard manager for macOS. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/p0deje/Maccy)
- [Maintenance](https://www.titanium-software.fr/en/maintenance.html) - Maintenance is an operating system maintenance and cleaning utility for macOS that you can use to perform miscellaneous tasks of computer maintenance: run periodic scripts; rebuild the databases; delete application, font, and system caches; and more. [![Freeware][Freeware Icon]](https://www.titanium-software.fr/en/maintenance.html)
- [MOS](https://mos.caldis.me/) - A lightweight tool used to smooth scrolling and set scroll direction independently for your mouse on MacOS [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://mos.caldis.me/)
- [Numi](https://numi.app/) - Beautiful calculator app for macOS. It allows you to describe tasks naturally and instantly get an accurate answer. For example, `$20 in euro - 5% discount` or `today + 2 weeks`. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/nikolaeu/numi)
- [OmniDiskSweeper](https://www.omnigroup.com/more) - Quickly find large, unwanted files and sweep them into the trash. [![Freeware][Freeware Icon]](https://www.omnigroup.com/more)
- [One Thing](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/one-thing/id1604176982?mt=12) - Put your most important task or goal in the menu bar. Its presence there will help remind you without being annoying. [![Freeware][Freeware Icon] ![App Store][app-store Icon]](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/one-thing/id1604176982?mt=12)
- [OnyX](https://www.titanium-software.fr/en/onyx.html) - OnyX is a multifunction utility that you can use to verify the structure of the system files; run miscellaneous maintenance and cleaning tasks; configure parameters in the Finder, Dock, Safari, and some Apple applications; delete caches; remove certain problematic folders and files; rebuild various databases and indexes; and more. [![Freeware][Freeware Icon]](https://www.titanium-software.fr/en/onyx.html)
- [Rectangle](https://rectangleapp.com/) - Move and resize windows in macOS using keyboard shortcuts or snap areas. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/rxhanson/Rectangle)
- [SelfControl](https://selfcontrolapp.com/) - Mac app to block your own access to distracting websites etc. for a predetermined period of time. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/SelfControlApp/selfcontrol)
- [SlimHUD](https://alexperathoner.github.io/SlimHUD/) - Replacement for MacOS’ HUDs. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://alexperathoner.github.io/SlimHUD/)
- [Tempbox](https://tempbox.waseem.works/) - Instant disposable emails for Mac powered by _Mail.tm_. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/devwaseem/TempBox)
- [Transnomino ](https://www.transnomino.com/) - A batch rename utility for the Mac [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://www.transnomino.com/)
- [TinkerTool](https://www.bresink.com/osx/TinkerTool.html) - TinkerTool is an application that gives you access to additional preference settings Apple has built into macOS.
- [The Unarchiver](https://macpaw.com/the-unarchiver) - Unpack any archive, in no time. [![Freeware][Freeware Icon]](https://macpaw.com/the-unarchiver)
- [Transmission](https://transmissionbt.com/) - Transmission is a fast, easy, and free BitTorrent client. [![Open-Source Software][OSS Icon]](https://github.com/transmission/transmission)

#### Wallpaper
- [Every Default macOS Wallpaper](https://512pixels.net/projects/default-mac-wallpapers-in-5k/) - Every major version of macOS has come with a new default wallpaper. [![Freeware][Freeware Icon]](https://512pixels.net/projects/default-mac-wallpapers-in-5k/)
- [Dynamic Wallpaper Club](https://dynamicwallpaper.club/gallery) - A service to create and a platform to share Dynamic Wallpapers for Mac. [![Freeware][Freeware Icon]](https://dynamicwallpaper.club/gallery)
- [Mac Sierra Wallpapers](https://wallpaperaccess.com/mac-sierra) - A collection of the top 39 Mac Sierra wallpapers and backgrounds available for download for free. [![Freeware][Freeware Icon]](https://wallpaperaccess.com/mac-sierra)
- [Grayscale of Mountain](https://unsplash.com/photos/GjpUV4k76F8) - Taken from 5083m behind Dingboche, Nepal.

#### Others
- [Is Apple Silicon ready?](https://isapplesiliconready.com/) - The complete guide for MacOS Apps Optimized for Apple Silicon Macs and the M1 Processor.

#### Awesome macOS Repo on GitHub
- [![Awesome List][awesome-list Icon] agarrharr/awesome-macos-screensavers ![GitHub Repo stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/agarrharr/awesome-macos-screensavers)](https://github.com/agarrharr/awesome-macos-screensavers)
- [![Awesome List][awesome-list Icon] iCHAIT/awesome-macOS ![GitHub Repo stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/iCHAIT/awesome-macOS)](https://github.com/iCHAIT/awesome-macOS)
- [![Awesome List][awesome-list Icon] jaywcjlove/awesome-mac ![GitHub Repo stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/jaywcjlove/awesome-mac)](https://github.com/jaywcjlove/awesome-mac)
- [![Awesome List][awesome-list Icon] serhii-londar/open-source-mac-os-apps ![GitHub Repo stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/serhii-londar/open-source-mac-os-apps)](https://github.com/serhii-londar/open-source-mac-os-apps)
- [![Awesome List][awesome-list Icon] phmullins/awesome-macos ![GitHub Repo stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/phmullins/awesome-macos)](https://github.com/phmullins/awesome-macos)

<p align="right"><a href="#awesome-macos"><b>↥ To the top</b></a></p>

[OSS Icon]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/MilanAryal/awesome-macos/main/svg/min-oss.svg "Open Source Software"
[Freeware Icon]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/MilanAryal/awesome-macos/main/svg/min-free.svg "Freeware"
[app-store Icon]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/MilanAryal/awesome-macos/main/svg/min-app-store.svg "App Store Software"
[awesome-list Icon]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/MilanAryal/awesome-macos/main/svg/min-awesome.svg "Awesome List"
[Homebrew Icon]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/MilanAryal/awesome-macos/main/svg/min-brew.svg "Homebrew"
